>> [MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: I did say that RxJS
is pretty well standardized it's
a it's a really good idea.
It's probably a pretty good sense of
what we're going to end up with or
something very close to it.
If we get observables in JavaScript.
I've tried a number of times
to learn RxJS honestly I have.
I've never had enough time
to get through all of that documentation
the training courses I've gone through.
It takes a lot of effort and,
comparatively speaking,
if I try to analyze the asynchronous event
based coding that I do in my programs,
there's actually kind of a small subset of
things that I really do on a common basis.
So it occurred to me that if I'm already
pretty familiar with using asynquence for
my generators and my promises,
why not have reactive programming
capabilities with an asynquence.
That actually fits pretty well ,because
I'm already dealing with sequences.
That's my abstraction, so all I need to do
is be able to make repeatable sequences.
And then it fits right in with the same
abstractions that have already created and
all the same methods and
utilities that I've got,
they all work on reactive as well.
So what I did was add reactive
sequences to the library.
For our purposes, rather than me trying
to get you bogged down into learning all
the complexities of RxJS, I'm gonna show
you reactive sequences which work very,
very similarly to the RxJS observables.
And I'm actually gonna show you that you
can transparently go between the two.
So, you can take in a reactive sequence
and make an RxJS observable and
vice versa if you need to.
But this is just like,
it's like the five or
six most common ones you need put down and
inside of a tiny little implementation.
So instead of having to
bring in a 200k library,
you get this for like 3k in asynquence.
So that's really all it is
trying to make it a little
little easier to wrap your brain around.
So I can make a utility like fromEvent
which looks exactly like the one
provided by the observables that takes
an done element takes an event name and
it attaches and
here I'm using JQuery just to save room on
the slides of course we don't use JQuery.
[COUGH] So from a vent utility
is how I make an observable and
you see I do that on line 8.
Now I'm gonna call mine I use the term
reactive sequence instead of observable
I did that on purpose.
Because it's not an observable
it's isomorphic with observables
they can go back and forth.
But it's not an observable it's my own
little thing it's a much smaller simpler
thing so rather than calling it
an observable and having people complain
that it doesn't do exactly the same
thing that our RxJS observables do.
It's a reactive sequence, but
it's transparently very similar.
So you can go back and forth.
So I'm going to call it rsq, just to keep
things clear, it's a reactive sequence.
And then you'll notice I just start
chaining off of it exactly like I do
any other asynquence.
Used .vals and .thens and .seqs.
I can use .runners, I can use any
of the abstractions provided to me
by the asynchronous library directly
off of a reactive sequence.
And under the covers the reactive sequence
takes care of repeating all those steps
every time a new piece of
data flows through, so
you don't have to worry about
that whole repeating thing.
It figures out how to repeat the chain
over, and over, and over again.
You could sort of think about a reactive
sequences like a sequence template.
You declare what the sequence template
looks like an asynquence will repeat,
it will clone and repeat that
template every time it needs to.
So that's a pretty lightweight way of
getting started playing with observables
you don't need some big library.
You just take knowledge
that you already have,
a little bit of a knowledge about
asynquence, and hook it up.
And the main thing,
as you can see up there on line 2,
the main way we create a reactive
sequence is to say ASQ.react.
And that gives us a function,
which I call proceed.
And every time that thing is called,
whatever you pass to it is data
that gets pumped down the chain.
It's really pretty straightforward.
I want to point out an alternate
implementation of that from event
to show you a different way of
thinking about a reactive sequence.
Here, I make an empty reactive
sequence by just saying ASQ.react.of
with no data in it that's exactly
the same syntax as RxJS uses.
They have a .of method that you can pass
nothing into it or pass data into it so
it's exactly the same thing.
But you notice that I have a push
method that I'm referencing on line 3.
So you can manually pump data
into your reactive sequences
which is what I'm doing here.
I'm making the event binding
manually pump data and it's
gonna accomplish exactly the same thing as
the code on the other side but it shows
you the reactive sequences are things that
you can pump data into if you want to.
I actually end up using that quite a bit.
So here's a quick example.
I make an empty sequence up
on line 1 called rsq1, and
I make another one called rsq2,
which I preset some data in,
I pre-pumped some data in three pieces
of data, three numbers, 1, 2, 3.
And then I set myself up with an interval.
So I'm just going to,
every 500 milliseconds push some
more data down that stream.
Each one of those streams,
I'm gonna push some numbers down.
So those are starting out at 10 and 11
there on line 6 and 7, the values 10 and
11 as they increment.
Elsewhere in my program I'm
going to subscribe to those two
observables those two reactive sequences.
Line ten I subscribe to rsq1 and
I print out whatever I'm getting there and
you notice if you follow the flow there
because rsq1 didn't have any data
the first piece of data gets down
the stream is the value ten.
And then 500 milliseconds later, it gets
the value 12, and then the value 14.
What about rsq2 it already had
three pieces of data in the stream.
So the 1, 2 and 3 are gonna come out
right away as we see on line 18.
And then we're gonna start every 500
milliseconds getting the values 11, 13,
15 and so forth.
So these are just streams we
can pump data into them and
get data out on the other end that's all.
That's all it takes to understand
what's happening here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because
these are just streams,
we can define higher level operations,
the stream operations.
This is maybe the most important thing
that I'm going to teach you about all of
reactive programming.
This is what really unlocks
the magic of reactive programming.
If you think about them as streams,
we can define certain operations for
composing streams together.
So here I have two different streams,
I have an rsq1 and rsq2.
They're both coming from
different DOM events.
One of them is clicks on a button and
one of them is key presses
in an input box, okay?
We could individually
subscribe to those and
be notified when any one
of those events happen.
But what if I wanted to listen to a sort
of synthetic event stream that told me
whenever those two things happened
at exactly the same time?
I could listen for the .all operator.
That's a stream operator that says
I'm only gonna fire an event on rsq3.
Whenever I have an event from
all of my input streams.
So if the key press happens first, I'm
gonna wait until I get the button click,
and now that I have these two events
I'm gonna put those two together and
fire them out on the rsq3 stream.
So I've created a synthetic event stream
based on the composition
of two lower level streams.
That's .all, and by the way in RxJS
terminology .all is called .zip so
in RxJS they have a zip.
There's an alias if you like the RxJS
terms, you can use dot zip here, I just,
zip is weird to me so I used .all.
And there's another one called merge
in RxJS, which I called .any that says,
I've got two or more incoming streams and
I want to fire an event any time
I get anything from any of them.
So just fire him out as quick as soon as I
get one from any stream fired it back out
down the stream.
And that's called the merge
in the arcs chance world.
Here's the Rx marbles if you
want to go back and look.
So zip is the RxJS terminology for
that stream operation.
And you can see that one
comes out on one stream and
A comes in another as soon as A shows up.
An event is fired on the output stream
called 1 A with the data 1 A in it and
then when 2 and
B show up then 2 B goes out.
C and D come together but
we're still waiting on a 3 and
then we get 3 C and 4 D.
So that composite stream down
there is a higher order stream to
defined as a composition of two or
more input streams.
This is one of the most powerful
techniques that you can learn.
Is understanding how to model the data
that's flowing through your app or
operation, your application.
As a series of stream operations
without practicing what I'm saying
it's going to feel very esoteric and
we are to you I understand that.
But I promise you if you start practicing
orienting your application around
asynchronous events and using these
higher order stream operations.
It's like another set of
light bulbs go off in life.
Wow, how did I ever get all?
How do I ever get around not using
that as my way of modeling data flow?
So it's right that people
are super excited about this
reactive programming thing.
It's gonna completely change a whole bunch
of really crappy stuff that we've been
doing for a long time.
The other workshops from Freddy Mausers
like Jeff's workshop, fantastic workshop.
It's all in on observables.
It's all observables all the time and
it's great.
Netflix is using it, Microsoft's using it,
everybody's really in on
this observables thing.
So I think we should we
owe it some attention.
We owe it our attention to kind
of learn that and see that.
I think if promises and generators
represent the baseline, the thing that's
right over the horizon is observables
are gonna be what everybody is using.
It doesn't mean that promises
are gonna go away but
it means that observables are going to be
a really powerful tool in our tool belt.